Careful Fiery Scallop

High

# Unauthorized PartyB could settle PNL of other PartyBs and users in the system

### Summary

The `settleUpnl` function does not include `notPartyB` modifier. As a result, unauthorized PartyB could settle PNL of other PartyBs and users in the system, causing disruption and breaking core protocol functionality. Unauthorized PartyB can prematurely settle PartyB's (victim) positions prematurely at times that are disadvantageous to PartyB, resulting in asset loss for them.

For example, in a highly volatile market, if PartyB’s positions temporarily incur a loss due to sudden market fluctuations, the Unauthorized PartyB could immediately settle these positions before the market has a chance to recover. This premature settlement forces PartyB to realize losses that might have otherwise been avoided if the positions had remained open.

### Root Cause

- The `settleUpnl` function does not include `notPartyB` modifier.

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

The `settleUpnl` function can only be accessed by PartyB, as per the comment below. However, the function is not guarded by the [`notPartyB`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-symmio-v0-8-4-update-contest/blob/main/protocol-core/contracts/utils/Accessibility.sol#L18) modifier.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-symmio-v0-8-4-update-contest/blob/main/protocol-core/contracts/facets/Settlement/SettlementFacet.sol#L26

```solidity
File: SettlementFacet.sol
16: 	/**
17: 	 * @notice Allows Party B to settle the upnl of party A position for the specified quotes.
18: 	 * @param settlementSig The data struct contains quoteIds and upnl of parties and market prices
19: 	 * @param updatedPrices New prices to be set as openedPrice for the specified quotes.
20: 	 * @param partyA Address of party A
21: 	 */
22: 	function settleUpnl(
23: 		SettlementSig memory settlementSig,
24: 		uint256[] memory updatedPrices,
25: 		address partyA
26: 	) external whenNotPartyBActionsPaused notLiquidatedPartyA(partyA) {
27: 		uint256[] memory newPartyBsAllocatedBalances = SettlementFacetImpl.settleUpnl(settlementSig, updatedPrices, partyA);
..SNIP..
35: 	}
```

Instead, it depends on the `quoteLayout.partyBOpenPositions[msg.sender][partyA].length > 0` at Line 31 below, which is not a reliable method to determine whether the caller is a valid PartyB. The reason is that it is possible that a PartyB (e.g., one that might be removed due to malicious activities) that has already been removed from the system still has residual open positions. In this case, the position's length check will pass, and the unauthorized PartyB could continue to settle the PNL of other PartyBs and users in the system.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-symmio-v0-8-4-update-contest/blob/main/protocol-core/contracts/libraries/LibSettlement.sol#L24

```solidity
File: LibSettlement.sol
15: 	function settleUpnl(
..SNIP..
30: 		require(
31: 			isForceClose || quoteLayout.partyBOpenPositions[msg.sender][partyA].length > 0,
32: 			"LibSettlement: Sender should have a position with partyA"
33: 		);
```

### Impact

Unauthorized PartyB could settle PNL of other PartyBs and users in the system, causing disruption and breaking core protocol functionality. Unauthorized PartyB can prematurely settle PartyB's (victim) positions prematurely at times that are disadvantageous to PartyB, resulting in asset loss for them.

For example, in a highly volatile market, if PartyB’s positions temporarily incur a loss due to sudden market fluctuations, the Unauthorized PartyB could immediately settle these positions before the market has a chance to recover. This premature settlement forces PartyB to realize losses that might have otherwise been avoided if the positions had remained open.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Include the `notPartyB` modifier to the `settleUpnl` function.