Careful Fiery Scallop

High

# PartyA can exploit the force close opportunity to settle other positions' uPNL that they have with other PartyBs/hedgers

### Summary

PartyA can exploit the force close opportunity to settle the UPNL of other positions that they have with other PartyBs/hedgers. As a result, by settling the UPNL early without other hedgers' (e.g., PartyB_2, PartyB_3, PartyB_4) consent, PartyA can lock in the profit for profitable positions immediately at a price favorable to PartyA. This could be aggravated in a highly volatile market with sudden market and price fluctuations. Since this is a zero-sum game, PartyA's gain is the counterparties' loss, leading to a loss of assets for the PartyB/hedgers.

### Root Cause

- PartyA can exploit the force close opportunity to settle the UPNL of other positions that they have with other PartyBs/hedgers

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

The [Symm IO v0.8.3 documentation](https://docs.symm.io/protocol-architecture/technical-documentation/contracts-documentation-0.8.4#force-close-handling) describes the intention of allowing PartyA (users) to force-close the hedger's positions.

> a user might want to force-close a position, but the hedger doesn't have sufficient allocated balance. For these scenarios, we've added a method called `settleAndForceClosePosition`.

Assume the following scenario:

- Quote 1 - PartyB_1 with PartyA
- Quote 2 - PartyB_2 with PartyA
- Quote 3 - PartyB_3 with PartyA
- Quote 4 - PartyB_4 with PartyA

If PartyB_1 does not respond to PartyA's close request within a specific timeframe, PartyA can perform a force close against PartyB_1 via the `forceClosePosition` function. Within the `forceClosePosition` function, PartyA's can utilize the newly implemented `settleUpnl` function to settle the PnL of PartyB_1 to ensure that PartyB_1 has sufficient allocated balance to ensure that the force close proceeds without a revert.

However, a malicious PartyA can exploit this opportunity to also settle the UPNL of other positions that they have with other PartyBs/hedgers (e.g., PartyB_2, PartyB_3, PartyB_4) besides PartyB_1.

By settling the UPNL early without other hedgers' (e.g., PartyB_2, PartyB_3, PartyB_4) consents, PartyA can lock in the profit for profitable positions immediately at the current price. Moreover, PartyA could lock in the profit without going through the actual process of submitting a `requestToClosePosition` and waiting for PartyB to fill its close request, bypassing the standard position closing process.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-symmio-v0-8-4-update-contest/blob/main/protocol-core/contracts/libraries/LibSettlement.sol#L42

```solidity
File: LibSettlement.sol
15: 	function settleUpnl(
16: 		SettlementSig memory settleSig,
17: 		uint256[] memory updatedPrices,
18: 		address partyA,
19: 		bool isForceClose
20: 	) internal returns (uint256[] memory newPartyBsAllocatedBalances) {
..SNIP..
40: 		for (uint8 i = 0; i < settleSig.quotesSettlementsData.length; i++) {
41: 			QuoteSettlementData memory data = settleSig.quotesSettlementsData[i];
42: 			Quote storage quote = quoteLayout.quotes[data.quoteId];
43: 			require(quote.partyA == partyA, "LibSettlement: PartyA is invalid");
..SNIP..
68: 			if (quote.positionType == PositionType.LONG) {
69: 				settleAmounts[data.partyBUpnlIndex] +=
70: 					((int256(updatedPrices[i]) - int256(quote.openedPrice)) * int256(LibQuote.quoteOpenAmount(quote))) /
71: 					1e18;
72: 			} else {
73: 				settleAmounts[data.partyBUpnlIndex] +=
74: 					((int256(quote.openedPrice) - int256(updatedPrices[i])) * int256(LibQuote.quoteOpenAmount(quote))) /
75: 					1e18;
76: 			}
77: 			quote.openedPrice = updatedPrices[i];
78: 		}
```

### Impact

By settling the UPNL early without other hedgers' (e.g., PartyB_2, PartyB_3, PartyB_4) consent, PartyA can lock in the profit for profitable positions immediately at a price favorable to PartyA. This could be aggravated in a highly volatile market with sudden market and price fluctuations.

Since this is a zero-sum game, PartyA's gain is the counterparties' loss, leading to a loss of assets for the PartyB/hedgers.

Moreover, PartyA could lock in the profit without going through the actual process of submitting a `requestToClosePosition` and waiting for PartyB to fill its close request, bypassing the standard position closing process.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Ensure that the `forceClosePosition` function only allows PartyA to settle the positions of PartyB that failed to respond to close requests within the specific timeframe. In the report's example, PartyA should only be allowed to settle PartyB_1's positions and should not be allowed to settle positions of other PartyBs/hedgers (e.g., PartyB_2, PartyB_3, PartyB_4).

There is no need for PartyA to close the positions of other PartyBs that are not related to the current position/quote to be force closed. In the report's example, if PartyB_1 has insufficient allocated balance, `settleUpnl` can be executed to increase its allocated balance by settling PartyB_1's PnL. Settling PnL of other hedgers' (e.g., PartyB_2, PartyB_3, PartyB_4) will do nothing to increase PartyB_1's allocated balance, except opening a new attack vector for exploiters to abuse. 

If PartyA themselves do insufficient allocated balance, they should go through the standard closing process (requestToClosePosition) to close their existing winning positions with other PartyBs (e.g., PartyB_2, PartyB_3, PartyB_4) to increase the allocated balance OR deposit more funds to their account.