Careful Fiery Scallop

High

# An excessive number of user positions can be settled even if the shortfall allocated balance needed for fulfilling the close request is only a small amount

### Summary

An excessive number of user positions can be settled even if the shortfall allocated balance needed for fulfilling the close request is only a small amount. As a result, victim's losses will be realized prematurely at unfavorable market conditions and prices, without giving them the opportunity to react or potentially recover from the temporary downturn. As a result, the victim is unfairly exposed to significant financial harm, having their positions closed at the worst possible moments, leading to a loss of assets for them. In this scenario, the victims are Symm Hedger (Party B1), Capital Hedger (Party B2), and Rasa Hedger (Party B3) in the report.

### Root Cause

- An excessive number of user positions can be settled even if the shortfall allocated balance needed for fulfilling the close request is only a small amount

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

Assuming a similar scenario mentioned in the [Symm IO v0.8.3 documentation](https://docs.symm.io/protocol-architecture/technical-documentation/contracts-documentation-0.8.4#detailed-example).

Bob (Party A) has five (5) open positions and zero allocated balance:

1. Position 1 with Symm Hedger (Party B1): Unrealized Profit: $300
2. Position 2 with Capital Hedger (Party B2): Unrealized Profit: $300
3. Position 3 with Rasa Hedger (Party B3): Unrealized Profit: $200
4. Position 4 with PerpsHub Hedger (Party B4): Unrealized Profit: $200
5. Position 5 with PerpsHub Hedger (Party B4): Unrealized Loss: $250

Bob wants to close Position 5, which has an unrealized loss of \$250. However, since Bob has zero allocated balance, he cannot cover this loss upon closing.

PerpsHub Hedger (Party B4) cannot fill Bob's close request for Position 5 because Bob doesn't have enough allocated balance to cover the \$250 loss. Even though Bob has an overall positive UPNL (\$750 net profit), his profits are unrealized and cannot be used to settle the loss directly.

Thus, the solution provided by the newly implemented `settleUpnl` feature is to realized the \$200 profit for Position 4 and \$50 profit for Position 3. Settling these PnLs will increase Bob's allocated balance by \$250. PerpsHub can now successfully fill the close request for Position 5, as Bob has sufficient allocated balance (\$250) to cover the loss (\$250). 

However, the issue is that within the `settleUpnl` function, there is no limit on how many positions the hedger/PartyB (PerpsHub) can settle the user's positions. It can effectively settle all of the user's positions (Position 1-5) even if the shortfall allocated balance needed for fulfilling the close request is only a small amount (\$250 shortfall), resulting in an excessive amount of PnL being settled for no good reason. In this case, the hedger can go ahead and settle the entire $1000 profit instead of only the \$250 that is required.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-symmio-v0-8-4-update-contest/blob/main/protocol-core/contracts/libraries/LibSettlement.sol#L42

```solidity
File: LibSettlement.sol
15: 	function settleUpnl(
16: 		SettlementSig memory settleSig,
17: 		uint256[] memory updatedPrices,
18: 		address partyA,
19: 		bool isForceClose
20: 	) internal returns (uint256[] memory newPartyBsAllocatedBalances) {
..SNIP..
40: 		for (uint8 i = 0; i < settleSig.quotesSettlementsData.length; i++) {
41: 			QuoteSettlementData memory data = settleSig.quotesSettlementsData[i];
42: 			Quote storage quote = quoteLayout.quotes[data.quoteId];
43: 			require(quote.partyA == partyA, "LibSettlement: PartyA is invalid");
..SNIP..
68: 			if (quote.positionType == PositionType.LONG) {
69: 				settleAmounts[data.partyBUpnlIndex] +=
70: 					((int256(updatedPrices[i]) - int256(quote.openedPrice)) * int256(LibQuote.quoteOpenAmount(quote))) /
71: 					1e18;
72: 			} else {
73: 				settleAmounts[data.partyBUpnlIndex] +=
74: 					((int256(quote.openedPrice) - int256(updatedPrices[i])) * int256(LibQuote.quoteOpenAmount(quote))) /
75: 					1e18;
76: 			}
77: 			quote.openedPrice = updatedPrices[i];
78: 		}
```

### Impact

An excessive number of user positions can be settled even if the shortfall allocated balance needed for fulfilling the close request is only a small amount. As a result, victim's losses will be realized prematurely at unfavorable market conditions and prices, without giving them the opportunity to react or potentially recover from the temporary downturn. As a result, the victim is unfairly exposed to significant financial harm, having their positions closed at the worst possible moments, leading to a loss of assets for them. In this scenario, the victims are Symm Hedger (Party B1), Capital Hedger (Party B2), and Rasa Hedger (Party B3)  in the report.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Consider limiting the maximum amount of profits that the hedgers can settle to the shortfall. In this example, the shortfall is \$250. Thus, the hedgers should not be allowed to settle more than \$250 to prevent excessive settlement of PartyA's PnL. 

This issue also applied to the other side, where Party A needed to settle Party B's PnL during force close. Thus, the relevant mitigation also needs to be applied for this.